Information 1:
Publication date: 2020-10-01
Title: Is the coronavirus airborne? | FAQ - Covid-19 - NJ.gov
Content:
This is similar to what was found for SARS and MERS, which some researchers consider likely to be spread via airborne transmission. One study estimates that a person infected with the COVID-19 virus who speaks loudly for one minute produces at least 1,000 virus-containing droplets that remain airborne for more than 8 minutes. Furthermore, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend airborne precautions for the care of COVID-19 suspected or confirmed patients.
Measles and tuberculosis are examples of respiratory diseases that remain infectious in the air for long time periods. The measles virus can live for up to two hours in the air where an infected person coughs or sneezes. Tuberculosis can live in the air for up to six hours. Under experimental conditions, researchers found that the COVID-19 virus stayed viable in the air for three hours.
Under experimental conditions, researchers found that the COVID-19 virus stayed viable in the air for three hours. The researchers estimate that in most real-world situations, the virus would remain suspended in the air for about 30 minutes, before settling onto surfaces. This is similar to what was found for SARS and MERS, which some researchers consider likely to be spread via airborne transmission. One study estimates that a person infected with the COVID-19 virus who speaks loudly for one minute produces at least 1,000 virus-containing droplets that remain airborne for more than 8 minutes.
See an error?Let us know! ... Yes, COVID-19 can spread via airborne transmission.
Information 2:
Publication date: 2023-02-10
Title: Coronavirus Disease 2019 and Airborne Transmission: Science Rejected, ...
Content:
Lidia Morawska, William Bahnfleth, Philomena M Bluyssen, Atze Boerstra, Giorgio Buonanno, Stephanie J Dancer, Andres Floto, Francesco Franchimon, Charles Haworth, Jaap Hogeling, Christina Isaxon, Jose L Jimenez, Jarek Kurnitski, Yuguo Li, Marcel Loomans, Guy Marks, Linsey C Marr, Livio Mazzarella, Arsen Krikor Melikov, Shelly Miller, Donald K Milton, William Nazaroff, Peter V Nielsen, Catherine Noakes, Jordan Peccia, Xavier Querol, Chandra Sekhar, Olli Seppänen, Shin-ichi Tanabe, Raymond Tellier, Tham Kwok Wai, Pawel Wargocki, Aneta Wierzbicka, Coronavirus Disease 2019 and Airborne Transmission: Science Rejected, Lives Lost. Can Society Do Better?, Clinical Infectious Diseases, Volume 76, Issue 10, 15 May 2023, Pages 1854–1859, https://doi.org/10.1093/cid/ciad068 ... This is an account that should be heard of an important struggle: the struggle of a large group of experts who came together at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic to warn the world about the risk of airborne transmissi
Concentrated effort should be made to use the massive body of data and the evidence amassed during the COVID-19 pandemic to assess the protective impact of control measures against the airborne transmission of the virus, should they have been implemented since the beginning of the pandemic. Supplementary materials are available at Clinical Infectious Diseases online.
It is time to address airborne transmission of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).
L. also serves as an ISIAQ.nl board member, and is a member of Impulgroep TVVL (Dutch Association of Building Services Engineers), Kennisgroep VCCN (Dutch Association on Contaminant Control), and WHO, for which they sit on the Environment and Engineering Control Expert Advisory Panel (ECAP) for COVID-19. L. C. M. reports a contract with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), National Institutes of Health (NIH) Department of Health and Human Services (HHSN272201400007C); grants or contracts from the Flu Lab and Wellcome Leap (all paid to the author's institution); consulting fees paid to the author from MITRE Corporation, Freedman Consulting, and The New York Times; payment or honoraria paid to the author from the University of Toronto, University of Hong Kong, Queensland University of Technology, and Virginia Tech Carilion School of Medicine; support for meetings and/or travel from MITRE Corporation and the International Society for Influenza and Other Respi
Information 3:
Publication date: 2022-06-04
Title: Why the WHO took two years to say COVID is airborne
Content:
The Netherlands ordered most businesses to close on 19 December, Ireland set curfews and many countries imposed travel bans in the hope of taming the tsunami of COVID-19 cases filling hospitals. Amid the wave of desperate news around the year-end holidays, one group of researchers hailed a development that had seemed as though it might never arrive. On 23 December, the World Health Organization (WHO) uttered the one word it had previously seemed incapable of applying to the virus SARS-CoV-2: ‘airborne’.
Public-health advice on COVID-19 in early 2020 focused on sanitizing surfaces more than protecting against airborne transmission. Credit: Ozan Kose/AFP/Getty · As 2021 drew to a close, the highly contagious Omicron variant of the pandemic virus was racing around the globe, forcing governments to take drastic actions once again. The Netherlands ordered most businesses to close on 19 December, Ireland set curfews and many countries imposed travel bans in the hope of taming the tsunami of COVID-19 cases filling hospitals.
On 23 December, the World Health Organization (WHO) uttered the one word it had previously seemed incapable of applying to the virus SARS-CoV-2: ‘airborne’. ... Yu, I. T. S., Wong, T. W., Chiu, Y. L., Lee, N. & Li, Y. Clin. Infect. Dis. 40, 1237–1243 (2005). ... Conly, J. et al. Antimicrob. Resist. Infect. Control 9, 126 (2020). ... Bulfone, T. C., Malekinejad, M., Rutherford, G. W. & Razani, N. J. Infect. Dis. 223, 550–561 (2021). ... COVID-19 rarely spreads through surfaces.
COVID-19 rarely spreads through surfaces. So why are we still deep cleaning?
Information 4:
Publication date: 2023-07-07
Title: Indoor Air and Coronavirus (COVID-19) | US EPA
Content:
Spread of COVID-19 occurs via airborne particles and droplets. People who are infected with COVID can release particles and droplets of respiratory fluids that contain the SARS CoV-2 virus into the air when they exhale (e.g., quiet breathing, speaking, singing, exercise, coughing, sneezing).
Transmission of COVID-19 from inhalation of virus in the air can occur at distances greater than six feet. Particles from an infected person can move throughout an entire room or indoor space. The particles can also linger in the air after a person has left the room – they can remain airborne for hours in some cases.
The particles can also linger in the air after a person has left the room – they can remain airborne for hours in some cases. Someone can also be exposed via splashes and sprays of respiratory fluids directly onto their mucous membranes. Spread may also sometimes occur through contact with contaminated surfaces, though this route is now considered less likely. See Science and Technical Resources related to Indoor Air and Coronavirus (COVID-19) or ​Indoor Air and COVID-19 Key References and Publications for technical information.
There are straightforward steps that can be taken to reduce the potential for airborne transmission of COVID-19 and the focus of this material is on those measures. The layout and design of a building, as well as occupancy and type of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) system, can all impact potential airborne spread of the virus.
Information 5:
Publication date: 2022-06-13
Title: Airborne transmission of COVID‐19 virus in enclosed spaces: An ...
Content:
Their experimental study also explored the effects of the ventilation rate and droplet aerosol production rate on infectious disease control. Nissen et al. 20 analyzed the possibility of the airborne transmission of SARS‐CoV‐2 by means of various sampling methods. To study the ability of SARS‐CoV‐2 to transmit aerosols in hamsters, Sia et al. 4 placed a donor (COVID‐19 inoculated) hamster and a healthy hamster in two adjacent stainless steel wired cages respectively as shown in Figure 5.
The reviewed probabilistic and deterministic research methods are helpful in the study of the airborne transmission mechanism of COVID‐19 and epidemic prevention and control. In the past 20 years, human beings have suffered from three highly contagious coronaviruses diseases: severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), and COVID‐19.
Since each ventilation system has its own specific requirements defined by national and international regulatory bodies based on the different ventilation objectives, WHO 44 provided a roadmap to determine the ventilation rate in different situations to deal with COVID‐19. Zemouri et al. 47 studied the effect of indoor air quality on the transmission of different infectious diseases, and their results indicated that the worse the indoor air quality was, the higher the airborne transmission probability would be.
This number could provide a better understanding of the fundamental mechanisms of the spread of COVID‐19. The probabilistic methods introduce great uncertainty to the study of airborne infectious disease transmission in buildings. Meanwhile, CFD and experimental measurements are popular deterministic tools for studying the transport of airborne particles in indoor spaces.
Information 6:
Publication date: 2020-07-09
Title: Modes of transmission of virus causing COVID-19: implications for ...
Content:
At the same time, other countries and organizations, including the US Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, recommend airborne precautions for any situation involving the care of COVID-19 patients, and consider the use of medical masks as an acceptable option in case of shortages of respirators (N95, FFP2 or FFP3).18-19
Airborne transmission is different from droplet transmission as it refers to the presence of microbes within droplet nuclei, which are generally considered to be particles <5μm in diameter, can remain in the air for long periods of time and be transmitted to others over distances greater than 1 m.  · In the context of COVID-19, airborne transmission may be possible in specific circumstances and settings in which procedures or support treatments that generate aerosols are performed; i.e., endotracheal intubation, bronchoscopy, open suctioning, administration of nebulized treatment, manual ventilation before intubation, turning the patient to the prone position, disconnecting the patient from the ventilator, non-invasive positive-pressure ventilation, tracheostomy, and cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
To date, some scientific publications provide initial evidence on whether the COVID-19 virus can be detected in the air and thus, some news outlets have suggested that there has been airborne transmission. These initial findings need to be interpreted carefully. A recent publication in the New England Journal of Medicine has evaluated virus persistence of the COVID-19 virus.10 In this experimental study, aerosols were generated using a three-jet Collison nebulizer and fed into a Goldberg drum under controlled laboratory conditions.
Based on the available evidence, including the recent publications mentioned above, WHO continues to recommend droplet and contact precautions for those people caring for COVID-19 patients. WHO continues to recommend airborne precautions for circumstances and settings in which aerosol generating procedures and support treatment are performed, according to risk assessment.13 These recommendations are consistent with other national and international guidelines, including those developed by the European Society of Intensive Care Medicine and Society of Critical Care Medicine14 and those currently used in Australia, Canada, and United Kingdom.15-17
Information 7:
Publication date: 2023-07-10
Title: Coronavirus disease (COVID-19): How is it transmitted?
Content:
In health facilities where people are receiving treatment for COVID-19, there is an increased risk of infection during medical procedures called aerosol generating procedures. These can produce very small droplets that can stay suspended in the air for longer periods of time and spread beyond conversational distances (typically 1 meter). This is why health workers performing these procedures or in settings where these procedures are performed should take specific airborne protection measures, including using appropriate personal protective equipment such as respirators.
This is why health workers performing these procedures or in settings where these procedures are performed should take specific airborne protection measures, including using appropriate personal protective equipment such as respirators. This is also why visitors are not permitted in areas where these procedures are being performed. ... There are many things you can do to keep yourself and your loved ones safe from COVID-19.
The difference is that ‘asymptomatic’ refers to people who are infected but never develop any symptoms, while ‘pre-symptomatic’ refers to infected people who have not yet developed symptoms but go on to develop symptoms later.  · Are there certain settings where COVID-19 can spread more easily?
Are there certain settings where COVID-19 can spread more easily? Yes, any situation in which people are in close proximity to one another for long periods of time increases the risk of transmission. Indoor locations, especially settings where there is poor ventilation, are riskier than outdoor locations.
Information 8:
Publication date: 2020-08-02
Title: COVID-19: Droplet or Airborne Transmission?
Content:
The Penn Physician Blog features Penn physician research, programs and perspectives.
Information 9:
Publication date: None
Title: Airborne transmission of SARS-CoV-2 disease (COVID-19) - PMC
Content:
Keywords: : aerosol, airborne transmission, SARS-coronavirus-2, COVID-19, droplets, SARS-CoV-2 ... Since its first appearance in 2019, SARS-CoV-2 disease (COVID-19) has continued to cause massive devastation, worldwide [1,2]. Emergence of its aggressive mutant strains or genetic variants in Brazil, the USA, the UK, South Africa, India or elsewhere and their subsequent spread in other countries has further worsened the crisis [3]. SARS-CoV-2 generally manifests into fever, cough, nausea, headache, hypoxia or diarrhea and may progress to mild-to-severe pneumonia and death [1]. Fortunately, we have acquired an in-depth knowledge on the epidemiology, manifestations, pathobiology, prevention and treatments modalities of SARS-CoV-2 as well as its ‘variants of concern’. In the absence of specific therapeutics, several repurposed drugs are currently under advanced phases of clinical trials or approved for emergency use [4]. Notably, within one and half years of this pandemic, some of the leadi
There is growing evidence that inhalation of SARS-CoV-2 represents a major transmission route for COVID-19 [21,22]. Recent studies have shown that SARS-CoV-2 can be transmitted by infected persons over long distances or periods of time in enclosed or indoor environments such as homes, apartments, offices, schools, hostels, workplaces, washrooms, hospitals, restaurants, airports, train stations and public transport systems [23–26]. According to the CDC guidelines, circumstances under which airborne transmission of SARS-CoV-2 appears to have occurred include: enclosed spaces where an infectious person either exposes the susceptible population at the same time or shortly after the source leaves the space; prolonged exposure to respiratory particles, often generated through speaking, shouting, singing, coughing, sneezing, yawning etc., which increase the concentration of suspended droplets, and inadequate ventilation or air handling that allows a build-up of suspended small respiratory dro
Nonetheless, while the epidemiological data has indicated that most of COVID-19 spread occurs through close contacts, its atmospheric or airborne transmission can occur under special circumstances. The existing interventions and preventive measures to control its potential airborne spread include physical distancing, use of good quality masks, environmental hygiene, avoidance of crowded outdoor spaces and improving adequate ventilation of indoor spaces.
4. Parvez MK, Padhan K. Current advances in novel SARS-CoV-2 disease treatment and intervention strategies. Coronaviruses 2, 1–6 (2021). [Google Scholar] 5. Parvez MK. Gut feeling: the plausible fecal-oral transmission route of COVID-19. J. Infect. Dis. Epidemiol.
Information 10:
Publication date: 2020-11-05
Title: Is COVID-19 Airborne?
Content:
For months, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has said that the novel coronavirus mainly spreads when someone comes into close contact with another person who has the virus. In October, the CDC acknowledged another way that COVID-19 spreads: Through airborne transmission.
“However, the most common way to get COVID-19 is still through close contact with others, not airborne transmission.” · For both forms of COVID-19 disease transmission – close contact and airborne – it’s respiratory droplets containing the virus that spread illness.
As the Omicron variant sweeps the nation, there are tips and considerations to take when it comes to celebrating safely.  ... There are advantages to getting fully vaccinated against COVID-19.  ... Some diseases, like measles, can only infect us once. What about COVID-19?
“Mask-wearing, hand-washing and practicing social distancing are still among the most important ways to stop the spread of COVID-19, but there are additional steps that you can take to help protect yourself from airborne spread of the virus,” says Nazar Raoof, M.D., division director of infectious disease at Raritan Bay Medical Center. “However, the most common way to get COVID-19 is still through close contact with others, not airborne transmission.”
Information 11:
Publication date: None
Title: Ten scientific reasons in support of airborne transmission of ...
Content:
Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases and Global Public Health, School of Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USASearch for articles by this author · Published:April 15, 2021DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(21)00869-2 · Ten scientific reasons in support of airborne transmission of SARS-CoV-2 · Previous ArticleHospital admissions due to COVID-19 in Scotland after one dose of vaccine
Am J Epidemiol. 1971; 93: 234-237 ... Google Scholar Ten streams of evidence collectively support the hypothesis that SARS-CoV-2 is transmitted primarily by the airborne route. ... It is time to address airborne transmission of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).
It is time to address airborne transmission of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Clinical Infect Dis. 2020; 71: 2311-2313 ... Google Scholar Both observations support a predominantly airborne route of transmission.
Google Scholar Measles and tuberculosis, two primarily airborne diseases, have never been cultivated from room air. ... Particle sizes of infectious aerosols: implications for infection control. Lancet Respir Med. 2020; 8: 914-924 ... Seventh, SARS-CoV-2 has been identified in air filters and building ducts in hospitals with COVID-19 patients; such locations could be reached only by aerosols. ... Long-distance airborne dispersal of SARS-CoV-2 in COVID-19 wards.
Information 12:
Publication date: 2021-04-21
Title: 10 Signs Airborne Coronavirus Spread is What Matters
Content:
COVID-19 is a disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 that can trigger what doctors call a respiratory tract infection. In early 2020, the World Health Organization identified SARS-CoV-2 as a new type of coronavirus. The outbreak quickly spread around the world. It can affect your upper respiratory tract (sinuses, nose, and throat) or lower respiratory tract (windpipe and lungs).
Some children and teens who are in the hospital with COVID-19 have an inflammatory condition that doctors are calling multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children. Doctors think it may be linked to the virus. It causes symptoms similar to those of toxic shock and of Kawasaki disease, a condition that causes inflammation in kids' blood vessels. If you have preexisting mood disorders, you may be at high risk for hospitalization or death but not necessarily severe COVID-19.
In February 2020, the CDC confirmed a COVID-19 infection in California in a person who had not traveled to an affected area or been exposed to someone with the disease. This marked the first instance of community spread in the U.S. It's likely that person was exposed to someone who was infected but didn't know it. This type of occurrence has been happening with the variants as well. ... The number of people infected or re-infected by COVID-19 changes every day.
SARS-CoV-2 is one of seven types of coronavirus, including the ones that cause severe diseases like Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) and sudden acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). The other coronaviruses cause most of the colds that affect us during the year but aren't a serious threat to otherwise healthy people. ... Yes, the COVID-19 virus continues to mutate and there are several variants that are now spreading.
Information 13:
Publication date: 2020-12-05
Title: Airborne Diseases: Types, Prevention, and More
Content:
Medically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, Ph.D., MSN — By Ann Pietrangelo — Updated on May 19, 2023 · Many different diseases can be spread by airborne pathogens. Learning how to protect against them is important for your health and the health of your community. ... Stay informed with our live updates about the current COVID-19 outbreak.
Many different diseases can be spread by airborne pathogens. Learning how to protect against them is important for your health and the health of your community. ... Stay informed with our live updates about the current COVID-19 outbreak. Also, visit our coronavirus hub for more information on how to prepare, advice on prevention and treatment, and expert recommendations. You can catch some diseases simply by breathing.
Stay informed with our live updates about the current COVID-19 outbreak. Also, visit our coronavirus hub for more information on how to prepare, advice on prevention and treatment, and expert recommendations. You can catch some diseases simply by breathing. These are called airborne diseases.
A rapidly spreading coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, and the disease it causes, COVID-19, has been responsible for millions of infections and hundreds of thousands of deaths globally in 2020. Information on coronavirus and COVID-19 is constantly being updated as a result. While the coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is not generally considered to be airborne, there may be
Information 14:
Publication date: 2020-11-05
Title: Is COVID-19 Airborne? | Houston Methodist On Health
Content:
Since the first days of the pandemic, we've continued to learn more and more about COVID-19, including how it spreads and how to protect ourselves. When it comes to spread, in particular, experts have hypothesized for many months that this new coronavirus may be airborne. But what does this mean? And — most importantly — does it change the preventive measures needed to keep you and your family safe from COVID-19?
The airborne nature of COVID-19 may help explain the dramatic spread of the infection through certain environments, including cruise ships, nursing homes and prisons. It also explains why 22% of the recent spike of cases in El Paso, Texas, have been traced back to "big-box" stores.
Since the first days of the pandemic, we've continued to learn more and more about COVID-19, including how it spreads and how to protect ourselves. When it comes to spread, in particular, experts have hypothesized for many months that this new coronavirus may be airborne.
And — most importantly — does it change the preventive measures needed to keep you and your family safe from COVID-19? To understand whether or not COVID-19 is really airborne, as well as what this means for our health and safety, we spoke to Dr. Tim Connolly, pulmonologist at Houston Methodist.
Information 15:
Publication date: 2022-01-21
Title: How Coronavirus Is Transmitted: Here Are All the Ways It Can Spread
Content:
Self-isolation. You'll be advised to self-isolate if you test positive for COVID-19 or if you have symptoms like coughing and fever but don't need to be hospitalized. Like quarantining, self-isolation is usually voluntary. But public health agencies may legally require it for certain diseases.
Some people who don't know they've been infected and never develop symptoms can give COVID-19 to others. This is called asymptomatic spread. You can also pass it on before you notice any signs of infection and then later get symptoms, called presymptomatic spread. ... Yes. It can get into your lungs if someone who has it breathes out and you breathe that air in. Experts are divided on how often the virus spreads through the airborne route.
You'll be advised to self-isolate if you test positive for COVID-19 or if you have symptoms like coughing and fever but don't need to be hospitalized. Like quarantining, self-isolation is usually voluntary. But public health agencies may legally require it for certain diseases. If you have COVID-19, regardless of whether or not you're vaccinated, you should self-isolate for 5 days.
If you have mild COVID-19 or have no symptoms, the CDC recommends isolation through day 5 (after symptoms appear or a positive test result) and wearing a mask through day 10. Those with moderate-to-severe COVID-19 should isolate through day 10, and those who are immunocompromised through day 20.
Information 16:
Publication date: 2020-04-15
Title: Is the coronavirus airborne? - WebMD
Content:
Brown, Chief Mission Officer, American Lung Association, and Tom Koutsoumpas, CEO, National Partnership for Healthcare and Hospice Innovation, about their partnering to develop a comprehensive guide to support caregivers and people living with advanced lung disease. WebMD's Chief Medical Officer, John Whyte, MD, speaks with Charles Sophy, FACN, Psychiatrist and Author, about his new book and five key areas that can help strengthen your family dynamics. WebMD's Chief Medical Officer, John Whyte, MD, speaks with Eric Topol, MD, Executive Vice President, Scripps Research, and Editor-in-Chief, Medscape, about COVID-19 boosters, who should get one, and when.
WebMD's Chief Medical Officer, John Whyte, MD, speaks with Eric Topol, MD, Executive Vice President, Scripps Research, and Editor-in-Chief, Medscape, about COVID-19 boosters, who should get one, and when. Hear what people have been going through as COVID has affected them and those they love.
Face masks help protect you and others from spreading or catching COVID-19. However, it’s important to follow the proper steps to make sure you’re not contaminating the mask or your face. Since the COVID-19 pandemic began, there’s been lots of buzz about covering your face.
Since the COVID-19 pandemic began, there’s been lots of buzz about covering your face. Here’s the truth about face masks.
Information 17:
Publication date: 2020-08-30
Title: The Shifting Paradigm of COVID-19 Airborne Transmission | MedPage ...
Content:
Jonathan Samet, MD, of Colorado School of Public Health, compared emerging research on COVID-19 transmission to historical research on tuberculosis, the leading cause of mortality in the U.S. at the beginning of the 20th century. He reminded the viewers that tuberculosis was once thought to be a disease transmitted by "oral secretions," such as spitting, which is why cities put up spittoons to stop transmission. But a "shift in paradigm" came from a study in 1956, which showed how guinea pigs were infected by airborne transmission of tuberculosis.
Indeed, understanding the mechanisms of transmission helps inform public health guidance, such as physical distancing, precautions in healthcare settings, ventilation in indoor environments, cleaning and disinfection practices, and "the forcefulness with which we recommend masking, which should be very strong," Fauci added. Jonathan Samet, MD, of Colorado School of Public Health, compared emerging research on COVID-19 transmission to historical research on tuberculosis, the leading cause of mortality in the U.S. at the beginning of the 20th century. He reminded the viewers that tuberculosis was once thought to be a disease transmitted by "oral secretions," such as spitting, which is why cities put up spittoons to stop transmission.
He reminded the viewers that tuberculosis was once thought to be a disease transmitted by "oral secretions," such as spitting, which is why cities put up spittoons to stop transmission. But a "shift in paradigm" came from a study in 1956, which showed how guinea pigs were infected by airborne transmission of tuberculosis. The advice shifted from "don't spit" to wear a mask, isolate, and improve ventilation.
"Taken together, it does not prove the route of transmission is airborne, given the time and amount of people in the room," Butler said, adding, though, that the circumstantial evidence is "very intriguing" that "evidence of aerosol transmission may occur." Molly Walker is deputy managing editor and covers infectious diseases for MedPage Today. She is a 2020 J2 Achievement Award winner for her COVID-19 coverage.
Information 18:
Publication date: 2020-11-29
Title: COVID-19 transmission—up in the air - The Lancet Respiratory ...
Content:
This knowledge is also corroborated by investigation of spread of cases between people who were not in direct or indirect contact, suggesting that airborne transmission was the most likely route. In July, over 200 scientists published a statement calling for international bodies to recognise the potential for airborne spread of COVID-19 as they were concerned that people would not be fully protected by adhering to the current recommendations.
On Oct 5, 2020, the CDC updated their COVID-19 webpage to say that there is growing evidence that COVID-19 infection can occur from airborne exposure to the virus under certain circumstances. Cases of transmission from people more than 2 m apart have occurred but in enclosed spaces with poor ventilation, and typically with extended exposure to an infected person of more than 30 min.
Whether droplet or airborne transmission is the main route, the risk of infection is known to be much lower outside where ventilation is better. As winter approaches in the northern hemisphere, the opportunity to socialise and exercise outdoors becomes more challenging and concerns are growing over the increased risk of transmission of COVID-19.
As winter approaches in the northern hemisphere, the opportunity to socialise and exercise outdoors becomes more challenging and concerns are growing over the increased risk of transmission of COVID-19. Public health guidance now needs to advise people how to navigate risk in indoor settings and wearing facemasks is becoming mandatory in many countries for travelling on public transport, indoor shopping, and gatherings. Facemasks and shields offer protection from larger droplets but their effectiveness against airborne transmission is less certain.
Information 19:
Publication date: 2020-10-08
Title: What We Know About the Airborne Spread of the Coronavirus - KFF ...
Content:
In July, 239 researchers co-signed an open letter that called on national and international health agencies to “recognize the potential for airborne spread” of COVID-19. Credible studies, they wrote, “have demonstrated beyond any reasonable doubt that viruses are released during exhalation, talking, and coughing in microdroplets small enough to remain aloft in air and pose a risk of exposure.” · Still, a July World Health Organization report found while airborne transmission was possible, more robust research was needed to confirm that it presents an appreciable risk.
If public health leaders take airborne transmission more seriously, Milton said, there are a few implications. Most business activity could continue, but restaurants and bars — because masks don’t fit with eating and drinking — would face a higher hurdle. Beyond that, more attention to ventilation in more closed spaces becomes important, as does the supply of N95 masks. Those masks continue to be in short supply. COVID-19 Global Health Watch Public Health CDC COVID-19 KFF Health News & PolitiFact HealthCheck Study
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has gone back-and-forth on this issue. One thing remains clear: Though science is evolving, indications do point toward the potential for airborne transmission.
Information 20:
Publication date: 2020-11-07
Title: Experts Say COVID-19 Is Airborne: Here’s How You Can Stay Safe
Content:
Experts want the WHO to acknowledge that COVID-19 may be airborne. Getty Images · The CDC says that SARS-CoV-2 can be spread via airborne transmission. Research has found that people with the virus can expel pieces of it when they exhale, talk, or cough. This risk of infection is higher indoors. Outdoors, the aerosols evaporate and disperse much more quickly. ... Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) updated its coronavirus guidance Monday, now stating that the coronavirus can spread through airborne particles.
According to the paper sent to the WHO, previous evidence suggests that Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) and the flu can also be spread through microdroplets that can potentially travel far distances indoors and be inhaled. It seems that COVID-19 behaves similarly, but experts still are not sure how often people contract the disease via this type of airborne transmission.
It seems that COVID-19 behaves similarly, but experts still are not sure how often people contract the disease via this type of airborne transmission. “Originally, it was thought that the major way that the virus was transmitted was from person to person by large particle droplets, which basically only travel about 6 feet or so and fall to the ground very quickly,” said Dr. Dean Winslow, infectious disease physician at Stanford Health Care, in an earlier interview.
Though the coronavirus is still thought to spread primarily through respiratory droplets passed from person to person, the CDC is recognizing that airborne transmission is also a threat since small particles can linger in the air for minutes to hours, be inhaled, and lead to an infection. The CDC also acknowledges that these minuscule airborne particles can travel farther than 6 feet, particularly when people are talking, singing, or even breathing heavily in indoor environments with poor ventilation. “People can protect themselves from the virus that causes COVID-19 by staying at least 6 feet away from others, wearing a mask that covers their nose and mouth, washing their hands frequently, cleaning touched surfaces often and staying home when sick,” the CDC stated in a new

